Hi, I'm Lee Xerri. Today I'll be sharing my research on how chess players of different skill levels view my Chess Training Tool, which I'm developing for my bachelor's dissertation.

The aims of this research are to explore how chess players of varying skill levels would perceive this tool, identify which factors influence the adoption of the tool, and receive valuable insights which would help in improving the chess tool's design. The research objectives and questions follow a similar idea, just formatted differently to fit their context. so in reality what ever is covered in the aim of the research would also cover the objective and questions.

My hypothesis which I based off of John W. Creswell's guidelines for Qualitative Research Design, was used to helped shape the research by focusing on which player opinions and tool features would encourage them consider adopting the Chess Training Tool into their own training regimes.

For this study, I looked into different qualitative research methods and decided that a Case Study approach was the best fit. I also used the interpretivist paradigm and chose a mono-method (purely qualitative) with a cross-sectional design, since the interviews were done at one point in time. It's worth noting that a cross-sectional design was used for the scope of this subject's requirements, in reality, a longitudinal design would fit pretty well to gather the insights of the players as the tool develops and becomes more robust. However, a cross-sectional design was enough for this case.

This approach was chosen because I needed detailed, personal insights from each participant’s point of view.

The participants of this study included a beginner level chess player of 700 elo, and an advanced player of 1600 elo, it is worth nothing that the advanced player is ALSO not only part of a chess club, but has attended official tournaments, and is registered in the World Chess Federation's database. This difference in skill level pushed me to adopt semi-structurted interviews, which allowed me to gather insights  for each player which are specific to their skill-level and personal chess experiences.

It is also important to note that both players consented to the recording of the interview, and their Chess-Specific information  to be displayed. This information being the public chess.com profile for the beginner, and the official FIDE registered account for the advanced player (FIDE is an acronym for the world chess federation)

I created various codes in MAXQDA which categorized any mentions which would help support my hypothesis, these being the usability, integration, usefulness, and accuracy of the tool. And then later conducted thematic analysis using a two-case model on MAXQDA so that I could analyze and compare the results. Now as was expected prior to the interviews, the advanced player's interview was much richer, being backed up by multiple personal experiences and insights on chess at a professional level, and was also more critical and suggested improvements to the tool which would be help in niche and specific situations which were envisioned through the advanced players' personal experience.

The results I received which supported my hypothesis were that both players did perceive the tool to be easy to use and easy to integrate, which resulted in them both considering adopting the tool, both players even mentioned that it is easy to use and easy to set up when asked if they would personally adopt it, which supports the idea that these variables pushed them into considering the adoption of the tool.

There was however a drawback, I hypothesized that their perception on accuracy would also push them into considering the adoption of the tool. Due to a lack of actual accuracy statistics, the players assumed that the tool would be viably accurate. In reality, it would have been better to support their perceptions with actual tool accuracy statistics to better ground their expectations. And I believe that it would definitely have affected their consideration in adopting the tool, which would support my hypothesis, however I know that this is an assumption rather than a fact.

Through this research, I was able to retrieve interesting design feedback for the tool. These features being support for people with disabiltiies, for example blind players would have text-to-speech support, and also the ability to traverse menus or access functions using their voice.
A human vs computer mode, which was suggested by the advanced player since they like to practice against chess engines. This would require the player to only set up their end of the board, and keep track of the engine's side of the board digitally, allowing the player to play on their own.
Another very potentially interesting idea would be to sell the tool as a product, and since it is a computer vision based tool, the inclusion of a physical tri-pod, with a tailored height and base to best support the tool, which would also further improve the setting up and mobility of the tool.

In conclusion, the previous variables mentioned and the players' perceptions did impact their consideration in adopting the tool, apart from accuracy, which mostly supports my hypothesis. I was also mostly cover all of the aims of this research. However, when it comes to research, there were various improvements to be made