Hello, hello, just test.

Hello.

Hello.

Okay.

Hello.

So, before we begin, I'm going to sign summary on the features of the tool.

Okay.

Okay.

So this set up.

I'm going to.

This set up. Is all you need is one chessboard, a camera and a computer to run the program.

That's all.

Small, yes.

The feature that the program will have is you can deposit solving, like you do on chess.com.

I think you are familiar.

Okay, okay.

Like stock fish and stuff.

Exactly.

You will have like features feedback from stockfish.

So when you do a move, you get feedback.

And also the program, when you do a move, it will save it.

And then once a game is finished, you will get a file with with the game move history.

So we will be also able to analyze and study the game.

Okay.

To set up the app, all you need is to set up the camera at a 90 degree gabov.

All right.

And then you will be able to calibrate the camera so that it matches the board corners.

It only captures the board.

It's easy.

All you have to do is click four times on the corners.

So click once on each corner and then it will set it up.

Okay.

Doesn't make sense.

Sounds easy.

Yes, makes a lot of.

Okay, good.

So. Let's start.

So for an intro, I'm going to get a bit of your chess background.

So, how long have you been playing chess?

Like five years?

Five years, okay.

Do you play it frequently or here and there?

Casually?

Here and there.

H and there, casually?

Okay.

Do you have a training routine or do you just play it whenever you feel like it?

Play it when I feel like in London?

Okay.

What do you enjoy most about learning chess?

The learning curve.

It's hard.

Okay.

Yes, okay, okay.

If you were to train chess or you want to actually learn, would you prefer doing it digitally on a website or in a traditional what a physical chess board?

Is there not going to like?

Dig in.

Okay.

It's much simpler.

Okay, it's much simpler.

Okay.

So, um from your first impressions, from the description that I gave you of the tool, do you think that what's your gut reaction?

Does anything seem confusing or or maybe how confident intuitive?

No, it sounds easy to set up, to be honest.

Mm.

Okay.

And.

Useful?

Do you think that there might be any difficulties setting it up?

No, no.

Just a camera 90 degrees angle and somebody's so flick, to be honest.

Sounds pretty good.

Okay.

Imagine you're setting it up and you're pointing your camera at the board and tapping to start.

Do you think any questions or concerns would arise about how easy it would be?

No, I don't think so.

Okay.

Okay, so, if you were to actually be using the tool, would you be concerned concerned that maybe you couldn't trust the tool?

Maybe it might make mistakes or errors?

There will be concerns, but if it's stockfish, I wouldn't think there will be a errors or anything.

Okay, Irrelevant to stockfish, though, just as computer vision.

So actually understanding the moves being made rather than analysis.

Do you think there will be concerns that maybe you do a move and it won't detect it correctly?

I wouldn't think so.

Unless there is a bug, there.

There may be, to be honest, but it will be pretty much fixed, I think, right?

Okay, so, I think that you would put your trust in it unless it clearly shows a mistake.

Yes, yes.

Okay.

But then it will be fixed, so it would be all good to go.

Okay.

All right.

Okay, then moving on from the intro of just setting up and trust, if you were to actually integrate the stool into your usual practice.

So let's say you usually just log into chess.com and play.

Do you think it would be possible for such an app to be integrated into this routine?

It can be to practice, to be honest, but in real matches, I don't think in real life matches.

Okay, okay.

What might hold you back from, actually in integrating it?

It feels like cheating.

I would prefer a real challenge, to be honest.

Okay, okay.

So let's say that, well,, when you practice, for example, puzzle solving.

So imagine that this program does puzzle solving the exact same with the same type of syntax.

That's stockfish would give you for chess.com, for example.

Would you prefer just loading up chess.com or do you think it's possible you might like to train on a physical chessboard with this program?

To be honest, it can go.

I want to practice more traditionally, I can use this app if I want to practice digitally, I' practice on stock.

So you think that there's a distinction between playing digitally and physically?

You might learn different things from both.

Yes.

Okay.

So, which of the features that I mentioned, which are puzzles on a physical chess board, instant feedback or game history?

Do you think would help you the most as you learn?

What?

Okay, so from the features that I mentioned, so you will have puzzle solving, you will have feedback on game moves and you will also have a game history where you can do post-game analysis.

Which of these three features do you think would be the most useful for you to actually learn from your mistakes?

The analysis, I think.

The post-game analysis.

Yes.

Okay.

Now, for some feedback from your end, if you could tweak something from this chessboard from this program. Sorry, what would you change?

So this could be anything.

So to give you a bit of a rown of how it would go from step one.

So what you would do is you would set up, like I mentioneded with the car right and the chessboard.

So you would do that manually.

Then you have to set up the chess position through text.

So you would have to go online, search up an FEN position converter and then you would get a text line, which basically represents aSb position.

Right.

So you would have to manually set up the starting position, retrieve the SafN, and then you would provide the program with the Safian.

So that is another step that we would have to do.

Then from then on, it is automatic.

Every move you make will be automatically read from the program and analyzed.

So from those from that setup, what do you think would be better to change?

To be honest, it sounds pretty easy, so I don't think I will change anything.

You wouldn't change anything?

Nah.

Okay, just to give you some idea, maybe just just to see your actual thoughts.

So you wouldn't, for example, say that, I don't know.

I think, in my opinion, it would be better if you could it could detect this. Starting position on its own, for example.

You have freedom to choose anything.

There's no wrong answer. You judge can criticize it.

There's nothing wrong with it.

That sounds pretty easy to set up, to be honest.

So I don't think I will change anything from.

Okay, okay, okay.

Okay, so from your impressions of the stool, do you think you would change it anything?

Sorry, do you think you would you think you would recommend it to anyone else you know that plays chess?

Yeah, I think I would if they prefer traditionally.

If they prefer.

Do you think you know anyone that plays chess traditionally?

Not really me.

Not really.

But if you would, if you did, you would recommend it.

Yes, yes.

Okay, then okay.

Okay, then that's all.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you.